The golden rules of trading
1. Never open a position in the market without knowing your initial risk. - Initial risk is the point at which you'll get out of the position to preserve your capital.
2. Define your profit and loss in your trades as some multiple of your initial risk. - We call these R-multiples.
3. Limit your losses to 1R or less - Don't change your mind when stock goes down.
4. Make sure that your profits on average are bigger than 1R. - If your initial risk(R) is 1% of your equity, then 1R gain is 1% gain.

Following is a summary of first four rules, ie. a golden rule of trading:
>> CUT YOUR LOSSESS SHORT AND LET YOUR PROFITS RUN <<
- make sure your losses are 1R or less and that your profits are much bigger (if possible) that 1R.

5. Understand your trading system in terms of the mean (the average R) and the standard deviation (variability in the results) of your R-multiples.
The mean R-Multiple is the Expectancy of your (trading)system. If your expectancy is 0.33R then after 20 trades you'll prolly be up by about 6R to 7R (0.33R x 20)

6. Design some core objectives for your trading. - Those objectives must be stated in terms of what you'd like to make as a goal for your trading and/or what you'd call ruin for your system--the point at which you'd stop trading.

7. Practise proper position sizing in order to meet your objectives. - The most important question you could ask yourself as trader once you know the expectancy of your system is, "How much should I invest ?" - Ed Seykota
	Key rules involving position sizing:
	1. Invest a percentage of your equity so that you invest more as you win and less as you lose.
	2. You might start out with a percentage of your equity that has a very low probability of reaching your ruin point and then switch to another percentage of equity when you have enough money to make sure that you don't reach ruin. Model for doint this will be discussed extensively later.

8. Calculate your System Quality Number(SQN) to give you some idea of how to position size your system in order to meet your objectivs. - V4.0 of "The secrets of the master trading game"

9. Know the big picture(what factor are influencing the market); have a way to measure these factors; and have a business plan that helps you capitalize on these factors. - You then need 3 or 4 systems that meet rules 1 through 8.

10. Follow the 10 tasks of trading and master yourself. - This rules is the key that makes everything else work. Look into author's "Peak performance Course for Traders and Investors"

